Good afternoon.
I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm the security technology
evangelist in Apple's Worldwide
Developer Relations Group.
I'm really pleased by this turnout.
Security is a really important
part of our architecture,
and it should be an important part of
your applications and solutions as well.
Today's session,
we're going to give you an overview
of our security architecture.
We're going to go into a bit of
the structure and what pieces
are there and what they're for
and how you should use them.
So without further ado, Perry the Cynic.
Okay, good.
I'm glad somebody cares about security.
Never know, five in the evening.
Okay, security is different.
Most features, you know,
you know you want it,
it'll wow the users,
it'll sell lots of copies,
that's why you're using a technology
and you just want to use it right.
Security,
There are a few applications where
security actually is the main feature,
you know, your typical encryption
utilities and stuff like that.
But for most of you,
it's something you put into
your applications so things
don't go disastrously wrong
and you get really bad press,
you know, like security violation
in public disclosure,
that kind of stuff.
So for most of you, security is sort of a
defensive kind of thing.
There are situations where it sort of
adds to the value of a feature because
you can make it work better than it could
if you didn't have any way of determining
who's who and who's allowed to get
what they're supposed to be getting.
But I think for most of you,
the experience is that security tends
to get in the way of your application.
And I've certainly seen a lot of
application programmers that spent
a lot of time just making that
bad security get out of the way so
they can get their feature to work.
One thing that you're probably
all noticed at least once,
and if you haven't, you will,
security operates on
the weakest link effect.
There is nothing that
is absolutely secure,
but if your stuff is the thing
with the weakest security,
the weakest application security-wise
or the weakest library security-wise,
the attackers are going to come after
you because you're the easiest target.
So like the old joke with
the two people in the forest,
which we've all heard,
so I won't repeat it.
Your task primarily is not
to be the easiest mark when
the bad hackers come calling.
So, what are we going to talk about?
This is security architecture overview.
So, you're not going to see any lines
of APIs scrolling over the screen.
That's not the level of detail.
I am going to tell you what
we've got in big brushstrokes.
I'm going to tell you
what to look out for,
how these things are supposed to be used,
and basically, if you have a problem,
which document you go to first,
which API header you go to first,
to see if maybe you can
solve your problem there.
Well, technologies, what have we got?
A lot of what we got
is industry standard.
It's UNIX.
We're all making a big deal
out of how this is really UNIX,
so you'll find
UNIX security technologies,
all the standard stuff.
There is Mach 3 under there.
Most of the time you won't notice,
most of the time you don't have to know,
but if you know something about
Mach or if you run into something
having to do with Mach ports,
that's a part of the security here.
You can certainly break an
OS X system really wide open by
doing stupid things with Mach ports.
We use the common data security
architecture API infrastructure
that's an open group standard,
and it's in there.
That's how you do crypto.
We have pretty darn good
support for Kerberos 5,
this time around for Panther.
As a matter of fact,
we have a strategy to Kerberize just
about every client server application.
And you'll find a lot of the
open source stuff in there:
SSH, OpenSSL, all that good stuff.
If you can't find it in
the system out of the box,
you can probably just compile it there.
You may have heard of UNIX ports,
which makes it pretty easy to get stuff
onto OS X if it's reasonably portable.
And let's just think.
: Okay, well of course we can't just
do the open source stuff.
We want you to pay extra money.
We want everybody to pay extra money,
so we have Mac OS X specific stuff.
We have Keychains.
Everybody here know what a Keychain is?
This is where you put your
secrets so they don't leak out.
We have something called
the Authorization API,
which you may not have heard of,
but you should,
because it's pretty darn useful,
particularly if you make local
client-server arrangements.
It's basically a way to deal with
authorizations in the system.
We have X.509 Certificate Support and
Associated Trust Management.
That's, we think,
a heck of a lot better than
what you get out of OpenSSL.
I put directory services on
here not because it's something
that the security group does,
although we talk to those
folks once in a while,
but if your security problem is how
to look up users and find them and
enumerate them and figure out what
they're supposed to be allowed to do,
directory services is probably
the API that you're going to use.
that you want to go through.
Alright, next level of detail.
As I said at the beginning, as usual,
keep your questions, write them down,
you can ask them at the end.
We'll stick around for as long as it
takes to answer all of your questions.
Which one of you is not comfortable
just dealing in Unix terms?
Let's admit it.
Raise your hands if this Unix thing
just freaks you out and you're sort of
used to the OS 9 way of doing things.
All right.
Thank you.
So, very briefly for you, unlike OS 9,
on UNIX, processes are hard separated
with address spaces.
Each process has its own address space,
and that's really the main
point of security in UNIX.
Within an address space,
you have the OS 9 game back,
and everybody can look at each other's
data if they only figure out where it is.
You can't really separate or
keep secrets within one process.
So, the UNIX trick,
to the extent that it is a trick,
is if you want to protect data,
stick it in its own process,
or stick it in its own file
managed by its own process,
and then that process can defend the
data against everybody else who's
sitting in a different process.
What you have is user identities,
user IDs, numbers, names, and groups.
You have the UNIX file system
that is basically your primary
way of labeling the data.
Craig Keithley,
Perry 'the Cynic' Kiehtreiber So,
the UNIX system is basically your
primary way of labeling the data.
You can look at each other's data,
and everybody can look
at each other's data.
You can look at each other's data.
Craig Keithley,
Perry 'the Cynic' Kiehtreiber with
who owns it and who gets access to it.
And, uh,
You have the magic word user,
user number zero,
who gets to do everything
in the system that he wants.
At that point, my presentation said,
sort of, "the nuclear weapon of
Unix," and they told me,
"Don't do that.
It's bad." You're not supposed
to use scary words anymore.
And we have the setUID facility,
which is essentially the one
and only way that you can get
access to a user ID if you don't
already have access to a user ID.
That's basically the one Unix
mechanism for elevating privileges
or getting access to stuff that
you don't already have access to.
And cautionary words about root:
always a good idea.
Root is dangerous, root is omnipotent,
root can do anything.
Root can mess you up,
can delete your data,
completely corrupt the system.
So be very afraid if you write
code that runs with root privilege.
The primary advice is don't
do it if you don't have to.
If you have to, then...
Know that you are dancing in a minefield
and either be an expert in how to do
this right or hire yourself an expert.
Writing root-level code,
if you're just sort of
kind of understanding Unix,
is just not a good idea and it's
worthwhile getting yourself at least a
consultant who understands this stuff
if you're not comfortable with it.
One principle about root code:
don't make it big.
Make it really, really simple.
Make it really, really small and make it
really easy to understand.
Ideally, the code that you write that
runs with root privilege is about
a page or two of source code.
Of course, yeah, okay,
so your application may
have 200,000 lines of code,
so what do you do?
Remember process separation?
This is how you do security in Unix.
Take your root code,
make it as small as possible,
and then you can start
to build your code.
If you want to build your
code as small as possible,
stick it in a separate process
so it runs as a process separate
from your big application,
and then let the two talk to
each other in a secure way.
I'll tell you how later.
We call this factoring.
It's a little bit like the factoring
the OS 9 folks of you went through
when you did Apple Script and
you factored your application.
Anybody remember that?
It's about the same idea.
So, standard UNIX, marvelous UNIX.
Not quite totally normal UNIX.
There is a Mach microkernel in there.
As I said,
most of the time you don't notice,
but it is in there and it is not
separated from the UNIX kernel.
The two are sort of sitting
there like Siamese twins.
So, you have to understand that sometimes
it is possible to get things
out of UNIX going the Mach route
that on a normal UNIX system
you wouldn't be able to get.
For example,
there are ways to get root privilege by
going through the Mach passport facility.
So, when you are doing security analysis,
if this is the kind of thing you do,
keep that in mind.
Otherwise, for the most part,
don't worry about it.
The root user doesn't
actually exist by default.
Well, okay, it exists,
but it doesn't have a password,
so you can't log in as the root user.
An administrator can go in, turn it on,
give it a password,
it'll be a perfectly nice user,
but by default, it doesn't exist.
And that's by design.
We have invented a class of
users called administrators,
which technically is just those
users that are in the admin group.
And administrators can actually
do a lot of things to your system.
If you look around your Mac OS X system,
Jaguar, Panther, earlier, doesn't matter,
there's a lot of directories
that are writable by group admin.
So admin users are almost root.
Frankly, an admin user,
if he knows what he's doing,
can get the root pretty easily.
So look out for that group.
Make sure you don't accidentally create
directories that belong to admin or
are writable by admin unless you mean
them to be basically system opening.
Just a few words about Mach.
It's in there.
You probably don't care about it.
If for some reason you actually
want to use a Mach interface,
it's a different world.
It's not like sort of Unix.
So get yourself a book, you know,
a nutshell book or whatever
your preference is.
Learn how to do this right.
Basically, Mach ports,
Mach message ports are the
big thing in Mach security.
A Mach message port is an access right.
You can pass it around
between processes and,
well, this is how you do security.
One warning word,
if you know about Mach and you want
to play around with it in OS X,
we are actually using the Bootstrap
port facility quite extensively.
We're using Mach Bootstrap subsets.
Again, if you don't know what this means,
never mind.
But if you do, we are using this.
Don't expect that every process in the
system has the same Mach Bootstrap.
Common data security architecture.
It's an open group standard,
you can tell by the word.
We implemented that for Mac OS X.
It's a pretty complete implementation.
This is not a port of the
Intel reference platform.
This is a completely new implementation.
We've open sourced it.
You can get it out of the CVS repository,
look at it, play around with it,
be impressed with how great it is.
It's C++, in case anybody cares.
Basically, anything in the system, well,
almost anything in the system, excuse me,
in the system that does cryptography is
actually doing it through the CDSA APIs.
So, whenever you see something
doing encryption,
whether it's disk images
or SSL or anything else,
chances are, ultimately,
it's calling down into the CDSA layer.
So,
what you see is that many times you're
going to end up using the CDSA layer
implicitly by calling higher APIs.
So, it's really great.
I mean, the open group standard
is like 600 pages.
I mean, you can spend many,
many weekends just reading the standard.
And it's a very,
very powerful set of APIs.
It's very flexible.
It's all pluggable with plugins.
It's also very verbose.
I mean,
it basically takes about 50 lines of
C code to just start the thing up,
you know, calling initialization
and loading modules.
So, unless this is something that you
really need to learn because your
job is doing cryptography on OS X,
my advice would be that you should
try to use higher-level APIs.
For example, if you want to do SSL,
call the SSL APIs.
They'll do all of this
nasty stuff under the hood.
There are situations where, you know,
there isn't a higher-level API or
it doesn't quite do what you want.
One of the features of our APIs,
the Apple APIs,
is that in almost all places,
if you look,
there is an API function that gets you
CDSA data structures out from underneath.
So, if a higher-level API gets you
90% to where you want to go,
you can get the CDSA module
handles and attachment handles,
make a couple of calls,
get that special extra option you needed,
and then go back up and continue
on the higher-level API.
So, that's really how you
should look at this.
All right.
Big building block number one: Keychains.
So,
You all have one.
Well, at least if you have an OS X system
that you've ever logged into,
you all have a Keychain.
At least one.
Because the system makes one for you
when you log in for the first time.
A Keychain is a file in your home
directory where you can stick secrets.
Passwords, keys,
all that stuff that you don't
want just everybody to know.
You could put it on a sticky note
or write it on a piece of paper.
The nice thing about Keychains is
that they actually encrypt the data.
So if you log out and you
walk away and somebody carries
your system away in his car,
they can't get at your secrets.
Because, as the line item here says,
they're offline safe.
That literally means that short
of calculating for a couple of
probably hundreds of thousands of
years on the fastest known platform,
there is really no way
to get those secrets.
So you can't get those secrets out
of a Keychain if you're not around.
That's assuming you
picked a good password.
But I hope you all know about the
importance of not picking your
mother's maiden name as your password.
The items in a Keychain are
protected by access controls,
specifically by
CDSA access control lists.
I'll talk about that in
a couple of slides later,
but keep that in mind,
it's really powerful.
If you look at it at the CDSA layer,
these things are databases.
They're really actually
databases complete with schemas.
You have different item types.
Each item type has a different schema.
You have a set of typed attributes
assigned to items of a particular type.
And behind your back,
this stuff is actually
done by a system daemon.
Remember, again,
Unix separation of address spaces?
All of the good stuff,
all of the secrets,
are not actually sitting
in your own address space.
They're handled by the
security server daemon.
So even if some bad virus
actually manages to grab
ahold of your application,
all is not lost.
Some is lost, but not all.
Scalable APIs.
Hmm.
Well,
there's a single API function for "Store
this secret in my keychain somewhere,
please." If all you want is some
bag to stick your secret password
into and then get it back out later,
that's the only call you need.
Just store that for me.
You give an account name and a service
name just so we can tell them apart,
but that's all there is to it.
And there's one other call, which is,
you know, get stuff out from my keychain
and give it back to me.
Cool.
Not very much detail to this, of course.
So if you actually have to
deal with a situation where
there's multiple keychains,
yes, you can have multiple keychains,
you can drop down to a somewhat
more interesting API with a lot
more arguments where you can say,
you know, which keychain and under
what circumstances.
You can search through them and do all
kinds of interesting stuff with it.
If that's still too simple for you,
if you really, really need to do the
nitty-gritty detail,
you can actually drop down all
the way to the CDSA API level and
manipulate keychains from there.
And that's probably
hundreds of lines of code,
but it lets you do anything that is
physically possible to do with keychains.
So this is your choice here.
Of course, you know, the higher the API,
the simpler the call, the lower the API,
the more work.
But at least you got a choice.
So, how is access to a Keychain and the
items in the Keychain controlled?
These things are UNIX files,
at least right now, so if you don't have
UNIX file access permissions,
you can't get at them.
So, if you want to make a
Keychain that's just yours,
you can use the usual
UNIX commands or the finder,
get info to make it just readable
by you and not anybody else,
and that's fine, that's security.
The next thing is a passphrase or some
other secret that locks the whole thing.
This is basically the key that
encrypts the data in your Keychain.
If that passphrase,
that secret isn't around,
nobody can really get at the contents.
As long as you pick a good passphrase,
that makes it, as I said, offline safe.
You can feel pretty confident.
We're 99.99% sure that we
didn't make a mistake there.
That in particular means if somebody
walks away with your PowerBook,
which has a Keychain on it,
which has your brokerage
account password in it,
that's okay.
As long as you didn't set your
Keychain to stay open forever,
you're safe.
That's a good feeling.
So we have the master unlock,
what we call the
passphrase for a keychain.
And then the next step,
for each particular item,
there is an access control list.
Now, these access control
lists can be as simple as,
so I don't care anybody,
or it can be put up a dialogue
and confirm with me before
you allow access to this item,
or it can be a list of applications,
like let mail.app use this,
but ask me if anybody else tries.
That's actually more or less the default,
the creating application gets free access
and everybody else puts up a dialogue.
The dialogue's there mostly so if you
end up with a virus that tries to roam
through your keychain while it's open,
you get a chance to figure out that
somebody is doing something weird here.
In particular,
you don't need to trust the
file system a Keychain is on,
because the Keychain, as I said,
is encrypted.
The secrets on it are encrypted.
That means that the only thing the
file system ever sees is gobbledygook,
as far as the real secrets are concerned.
I mean, the structure of the
Keychain is understandable.
You can see the items,
but you can't see the secret.
Now, this means that it's actually,
from a cryptographic point of view,
completely safe to put your
Keychain on your iDisk.
even if you don't trust Apple.
Even if you think that Mac.com is run
by evil alien infiltrators who read all
the data that's going through Mac.com,
you can still put your keychain there,
because all that's getting
on there is encrypted data.
And the only one who gets to actually
see the clear text data is the
security server demon on your system.
Same thing, of course,
with AFP servers and NFS servers
or removable volumes.
It doesn't matter.
You don't have to trust the file system.
Yeah, well, advanced stuff, sort of.
You can have any number of Keychains.
You start with one.
You can make new ones in a little utility
application called Keychain Access.
You can make as many of them as you want.
Why would you want to do that?
Well, perhaps you want to make one
with some secrets in it that
you carry around with you,
you know, one of those little USB dongle
things or a zip disk or
whatever strikes your fancy.
Maybe you're comfortable with
carrying around some of them,
but not all of them.
Generally,
if you have more than one Keychain,
things are arranged for use,
so when you search for an item,
you actually end up searching them all.
There's a search list that
is part of your preferences.
You don't have to put all of your
Keychains on that search list,
but that's what you get by default,
because that's what normal users want.
Portable does not mean that you
can take it to your Windows box
and it'll do anything useful there,
but it does mean that
if you take a Keychain,
put it on your USB dongle
or a Zip disk or wherever,
you go to another OS X system
and you stick it in there,
it'll work.
It will require your passphrase
to actually access it,
but there's nothing particularly
specific to the system
where you made the Keychain.
It'll work on any OS X system.
If you want to store things in a Keychain
and find that none of the defined item
types really do it for you because
you need very special attributes,
for example,
you can extend the schemas on a
Keychain to add your own item types.
That's definitely advanced stuff.
I don't generally advise it because
it's much easier to just shoehorn it
into one of the existing data types.
But if you really feel
that that's what you need,
call developer support.
We can work with you.
We can either tell you that that's
not what you should be doing,
or we can show you how to do it.
There is,
in addition to these user keychains,
you know, the one that each of
you has automatically,
there's also keychains in
the system that's new for
Panther called system keychains.
They're normal keychain files,
except they don't belong to a user,
they belong to the system,
and since there isn't any user around,
they're not actually unlocked with
a secret that a user types in.
They're unlocked in other ways.
The only time when you
actually care about this is if
you're writing system daemons,
you know, things like PPP daemons
or message servers or,
you know, generally if you're thinking of
writing something for OS X server,
maybe you're a candidate
for system keychains.
Look it up under that term.
The same APIs work for system keychains.
If you're writing a system daemon,
you will automatically
work with them by default,
because the rules are
a little bit different.
Authorization.
Another big building block of security,
a lot of code that went in there.
The catchphrase is:
The Authorization API is
about authorization,
not authentication.
Yeah, gee, what does that mean?
It means that this is about whether to
allow a privileged operation to proceed.
It's not about who the requester is.
If that's sort of too subtle,
I'll try to work out the difference
a little bit as we're going along.
There is, in your OS X system,
and has been for quite a while,
an authorization configuration database.
It's currently in /etc/authorization,
although eventually we
may move it elsewhere.
So forget I told you about that.
And that's the place
where an administrator can
set authorization rules.
Basically rules that determine
under what circumstances the
system lets you do certain things.
Authorization has the built-in
capability to do what people usually
call "single sign-on." Basically,
what that means is that once you've
typed in whatever is needed or otherwise
proven that you're allowed access,
you can remember that you did
that and carry that credential
over to other operations.
You may have noticed, for example,
if you're not an admin user,
you open up preferences.
There's this little lock icon.
You have to click that.
It asks you,
"Show me your admin password."
If you then go over to a
different preferences panel,
it doesn't ask you again because
even though that other panel
does a separate authorization,
it remembers that you just
proved you're an admin.
Well, you're probably still an admin.
This is a pluggable architecture.
You can, if you need to,
write plugins to add
authorization methods.
And if you're a Unix kind of person
and you're wondering why we're
not just using PAM for this stuff,
since PAM is, you know,
pluggable authorization,
because we think that ours is
a heck of a lot more flexible,
but if you have your heart sold to PAM,
we're actually gatewaying
both ways to and from PAM,
meaning there is a PAM plugin that
can trigger an authorization check
and there is an authorization
rule that can run a PAM chain.
Thank you.
All very theoretical, I know.
And this is Keynote,
so I tried my hand at graphics.
This is your program.
This is some server.
Your program would really,
really very much like that
server to do something for it.
Unmount the CD-ROM, reboot the system,
unlock the secrets of the universe,
whatever.
How can this server trust you?
I mean, who are you?
Why do you want this?
Why should you be allowed to do this?
Okay.
So, your program calls the
authorization API and makes
an authorization create call.
There's a name in there,
that's just a character string,
and each of these strings,
we call them write strings,
mean something different.
They're just used by convention.
And of course, we're using a dotted
hierarchical notation here.
The authorization API hands you back
what we call an authorization ref.
This is one of those opaque,
you don't have to worry what's in them,
don't ever look at them,
kind of abstract handles.
You take this authorization ref
and you hand it together with
your actual request to the server.
The server looks at your request and
hands that authorization ref with a call
called authorization copyrights back to
the authorization API and basically asks,
"This guy over there
that sent me this handle,
is he supposed to be allowed to do
this?" The authorization API does
something incredibly magical and decides
whether you're supposed to be allowed
to do this and either sends back,
"Sure, go ahead," or "Eh-eh." The server
basically does it or doesn't do it and
sends its response back to your program.
Simple.
Depending on which side you're on,
that sort of means different things.
If you're on the program side,
what you're doing is you're
creating an authorization and
handing it over to a server.
That's all you're doing.
If you're writing a server,
then what you're doing is you're
taking authorization requests from your
clients and then you're checking them.
If you're doing what I told you
about dealing with root privilege,
namely factoring your application
into a little part that has root
privilege and a large part that doesn't,
you're actually going to do both things.
Because that server will be your
little factored program and,
well,
your program is the rest of your program.
I don't know if you actually
care what's happening there,
but I'll tell you anyway.
When you are making these
authorization calls,
you're actually talking to the
security server daemon in the system.
And what it does, behind your back, is...
I should have checked
those slides one more time.
Anyway, it is talking to a UI daemon that
talks to the user behind your back.
So, the prototypical application
of the authorization API,
and remember the little lock
icons in the preferences,
is that a dialogue comes up and it says,
you know,
"Prove that you're an administrator.
Type in the administrator password for,
you know, some administrator account."
This dialogue does not actually
come from the application
that you are working with.
It doesn't come from preferences.app.
It doesn't come from any
kind of background server.
This actually comes indirectly
from security server.
That's important because, you know,
the application actually never
sees that admin password.
You're talking, when you are typing in
your admin password,
you're talking to a system
daemon that you better trust
because it's part of the system.
The result will be passed to some server,
but not the secret that is
actually being checked here.
So again, Unix, different processes,
keep things apart, good for security.
So, what ingredients have we got here?
You have rights.
These are these...
They're actually just ASCII strings,
no fancy Unicode or anything.
Recommending that if you make
these strings for your own use,
you use the Java convention of
basically taking your company
DNS name and reversing it.
So if your company
happens to be froboss.com,
then your write strings
would be called com.froboss.
and whatever's after that is up to you.
We are also defining a bunch
of these things for the system.
They typically start with system.
when we define them.
There's a couple of other ones here,
but for the most part,
this is how we name them.
Each of these write strings
has a different meaning.
These meanings are there by convention.
There's nothing magical about
the characters in the strings.
There's no automatic mapping
to system services or anything.
It's just that eventually,
when you make authorizations
based on these writes,
they'll go to a server and the server
will check for a particular write
in order to determine whether it's
supposed to do something for you or not.
If you're wondering what write
strings to use there as a client,
look up the documentation
of the server or the system
service that you're calling.
If you are writing a server,
you're going to make up your own.
As I said, our recommendation is that you
use your reversed .com name and
then just use something that's
unique within your company.
Credentials
Things that you are or that
you have or that you can prove.
Again, the prototypical credential is,
show me that you have an admin password.
That happens through that dialogue
that we've already talked about.
There's other types of credentials.
This is pluggable.
If you have a particular kind of
credential in mind that you thought
would be really cool in the system,
you can write a plugin and shove it in,
and it will become available
for authorization roles.
Credentials are shareable.
As I said, we have the single sign-on
capability in there.
If you share a credential
between authorizations,
then you only have to enter it once,
and it automatically carries
over to other authorization roles
that use the same credential.
That's cool because you don't
have to type in that administrator
password over and over again.
It's also potentially dangerous
because if you're not really sure
about who you're sharing it with,
the user may accidentally authorize
more than he thinks he does.
Win a little bit, lose a little bit.
Be careful.
They're persistent in that you can
configure them to be remembered forever,
which essentially means that
you can't remember them forever.
That's what it actually means
until the user logs out or
for a certain amount of time.
This is another way of controlling
the single sign-on thing.
If you give it a five-minute lifetime,
that means that it becomes available
for satisfying other authorization
requests for five minutes after
you type in that password,
and then you have to do it again.
And then there's rules.
The administrative authorization
configuration database.
/etc/authorization,
and now you all forget about this again,
basically maps rights to credentials.
So it says things like,
in order to make a change
to the network preferences,
you have to prove
you're an administrator.
Or in order to reboot the system,
it's okay, anybody can do that.
Or, you know, stuff like that.
If you are wondering /etc/authorization
is a normal plist file,
you can open it in the plist editor,
there's a bunch of comments in there,
you can, you know, play around with it.
New for Panther,
there's actually an API for
adding entries to this.
That's really cool,
particularly if you make up
a new write for yourself,
for example,
to talk between your root-factored
part and the rest of your application.
Because, again,
we don't really want you to know
that the configuration is in
this particular file in /etc.
What you can do now,
starting with Panther, not in Jaguar,
is you can call this new API, say,
"I want to create this new
authorization write." You also get
to add some descriptive strings,
and it can be localized.
And you can do that in your
post-install script or the first
time you run your application.
It will simply add a write to the system
that you can then use for yourself
and offer as a service to others.
So where is this stuff being used?
Well, in your application soon, I know.
But pretty much all of these
little lock round button things
that you click on that ask you for
your admin password or not because
you've already typed it before,
those are all based on authorization.
There is a service called
Authorization Execute with Privileges,
very ugly name intentionally,
that effectively is a way
of getting root access.
And that we recommend under
very specific circumstances,
rather than as a generic
facility to get root access.
Let me say that one more time.
This is for very specific circumstances,
like, for example,
third-party installers.
If you write an application that for
some reason or other needs root access,
then calling this is not the
best way to deal with it.
You actually are better off
writing a little factored,
very small set UID root application,
well, tool, factoring your application,
remember,
and then using authorization to make
sure that it's actually the rest of
your application that's calling it.
New for Panther authorization:
Bind Privileged Port.
Those of you who do networking
have probably figured out by
now that in Unix you need to be
root to bind to a TCP/IP port
whose number is less than 1024,
which at some point was considered
to be a security feature by
certain students in Berkeley.
But because of legacy and tradition
and backward compatibility,
it's still like that to this day.
If wanting to bind to a low-numbered
port is the only reason why you're
considering gaining root privilege,
starting with Panther,
this call can save you the trouble.
It's authorization-based,
which means that, again,
behind your back,
not in your application,
there might be a dialogue
popping up asking the user to
confirm that it's really okay.
Or if the administrator
configured it differently,
it'll just work.
Or if the administrator is paranoid,
it just won't work.
But it cannot under any circumstances
be any worse than the current situation,
which is, if you're not root,
you can't do it.
So look at that one if you
need low-numbered ports.
X.509 certificates.
Can I have a show of hands on which
one here actually knows what that is?
[Transcript missing]
For those of you who
know what certificates,
X5 and X9 certificates are,
we have full support for them
pretty much in the Panther system.
Some of it is preliminary,
but it's there.
That's a pleasant change from Jaguar,
where there was a lot of promise
in the system at that point.
At the CDSA level,
we support things like building
certificate chains and evaluating
them to make sure that they're
cryptographically okay.
That's part of the CDSA standard,
and that's where it's implemented.
We have higher-level APIs for the
stuff that you really care about.
In particular, SSL is supported by an
API called Secure Transport,
which is our own implementation
of SSL that's using CDSA for
cryptography and doing a lot of useful,
good stuff for you.
In addition to the pure
cryptographic verification stuff,
one thing that you get if you call our
The first thing I would like to
say about certificate and trust
support APIs is there's a little
database hidden in the system,
a per-user database,
that allows the user to basically tag
a certificate with a level of trust.
It allows the user to say things like,
"Okay, this certificate's fine.
I've looked at it.
I'll trust it for
network connections now,
or I'll trust it for mail use now." Or,
"That one there,
I know it's cryptographically okay,
but I hate this guy,
so never let me use this."
We call it the user trust database.
It's persistent,
it's per user and per policy.
There is a session on Thursday that
I think talks about that a little bit.
- Actually, a lot.
So look it up in your program.
Oh, and yes, you can store certificates
in your Keychains.
There's an item type for
certificates that lets them fit
right into your Keychain files.
And as a matter of fact,
we recommend that that's
how you store certificates.
'Cause it works, it's easy,
and there's pretty good support for
searching for certificates in Keychains.
Secure Transport, as I said,
that's our SSL implementation.
It's a pretty good SSL implementation.
It implements the whole standard
client-side and service-side.
It automatically ties into the user
trust stuff that I just talked about.
So by just using secure transport,
you get that for free.
I should give you one practical warning.
There are some uses of SSL out there,
particularly the OpenSSL-based ones,
that are very,
very lenient about how they
interpret the rules of SSL.
They pass a lot of stuff that
they really shouldn't because
otherwise the customers complain.
Some web browsers come to mind.
By default, if you use secure transport,
it will actually implement the standard,
which means that if, for example,
an SSL server has an expired certificate,
it will not connect to that server.
It will give you an error back saying,
"I've got an expired certificate.
This is not working." There's a
number of flags and options to
secure transport to basically say,
"It's okay.
I know.
Do it anyway." But these
are not on by default.
And we don't recommend that you
just turn them on by default.
Those of you transitioning from OpenSSL,
it's a little bit tempting.
Just set all those flags and it'll work.
It's fine.
But it's not the right answer because
these are actually potentially
problems of a security nature.
So leave those flags off by default.
If you must,
give the user options to override with
your favorite check boxes and like.
Better answer is to actually
use our user trust APIs.
We have canned UI that you can use to
essentially present to the user the
fact that something having to do with
certificates failed and how and why.
And that allows the user to then
go in and express his opinion
on whether to proceed or not.
If you're using CF Network,
HTTPS protocol through CF Network,
you're getting secure
transport automatically
because that's what it calls.
So same things apply,
same warnings and same congratulations.
Very good,
you're using the right solution.
This is what we provide for SSL usage.
Preliminary.
Not an official API.
May change.
Just to play around with.
Okay, end of disclaimer.
This is our preliminary
implementation of CMS and SMIME.
CMS, the cryptographic message syntax,
and SMIME, the secure MIME.
It's basically the way you do
encrypted email in the X.509 universe,
and CMS is sort of a generic way
of making encrypted bags of stuff.
These APIs are actually ported
and somewhat modified from
what you will find in Mozilla.
Some of you may be familiar with it.
As I said, it's not an official API yet,
but this is what we're planning on
making official next time around.
So if this is your area of interest,
if you're interested in encrypted
email or otherwise making
encrypted blobs of stuff,
take a look at that, play around with it,
give us feedback,
tell us what's not working or what
you think should be different.
And again, of course,
this stuff is using our user
trust implementation and all of
the good stuff automatically.
So, that's the major building blocks.
Let me give you an example of
something practical that you may
have actually run into and how
it's using those building blocks.
Encrypted disk images.
You all know what disk images are.
If you make a disk image,
there's actually a little
pop-up that lets you say,
"Make that encrypted." Cool, huh?
Actually, very cool,
because our cryptography
is pretty darn good.
Our implementation, we think, is secure,
so you can actually trust that security,
unlike certain third-party
utilities I could think of.
Of course, the cryptography itself,
the encrypting of the disk
blocks is done through CDSA.
You'd expect that, and that's what we do.
The disk images are encrypted with
keys based on a passphrase that you
type in when you create the image.
The passphrases are usually
stored in your keychain,
because that's where secrets go.
And therefore,
as long as your Keychain is
unlocked and your access controls
are set up appropriately,
you're actually not generally
being bothered with having to
type in the passphrase for your
encrypted disk image again.
It'll just fish it out of your Keychain.
If you're being paranoid with your
Keychain and you have it unlock
itself after a couple of minutes,
well, maybe you'll get a prompt to
unlock your Keychain with an
appropriate description that,
you know, somebody wants to.
[Transcript missing]
Your encrypted disk images
are actually pretty darn safe,
even against physical removal.
Because what happens when the
thief opens the powerbook,
I mean, obviously if he reboots it,
you're safe because the disk image,
the mounted part of the disk image
is gone and the thief needs to have
your passphrase to decrypt it again.
But if he still gets your
powerbook while it's asleep,
it will still be asked for either the
passphrase for your Keychain in order to
reopen the Keychain or directly for the
passphrase for the encrypted disk image.
If either of these fails,
the image gets unmounted
and your data is safe again.
And of course, when we actually go and
we ask for the passphrase,
either for the Keychain
or for the disk image,
that's again happening through a security
server and the UI daemon that it uses.
So the application that actually requests
the mount or the other user interaction
doesn't get to see your passphrase.
So that's sort of how
things get put together.
Having bombarded you with
all of those technologies,
I'm going to make up for that
a little bit by telling you how
to actually go and use them.
This is sort of obvious.
Find the right API for your job.
Don't try to subvert some API that looks
cool but isn't necessarily made to work.
[Transcript missing]
The fewer arguments you
have to explicitly specify,
the more defaults you get.
And getting defaults is actually good,
because if it turns out that one of
the defaults is not such a great idea,
we'll change them for you next time.
If you explicitly specify every
last option of an API call,
then you are actually going to have to
roll your application to make a change.
So when in doubt,
call the higher-level APIs.
I have seen a lot of
creative use of APIs,
security and otherwise.
I mean, this is sort of an
Apple developer tradition,
you know, "Look, it's an API.
How badly can we mangle it?"
That's sort of fun if it's an
API for drawing boxes on the
screen or maybe for writing files,
but if you're doing
this to a security API,
you are probably hurting the
security of your program.
Because these APIs aren't just calls
that you make and something wonderful
happens magically and everything's cool.
These APIs are part of a process.
They're part of a way of
working with your data.
So when you go and start
using a security API,
actually read the part that doesn't
just describe what the APIs are
and what the parameters look like.
Read the part on how to use them
and then try as well as you can
to actually use them that way.
Because the further away from
the intended use you get,
the more likely you are to get
into some weird path that may not
be as well tested as you'd hoped.
And even worse,
that may actually break the security
model that you think you're using.
So to the extent that you can,
stay on the mark path and try to stay
simple in your application of these APIs.
Security is not the kind of thing
you put in the last two weeks
of your development process.
I hope you all know that.
The best thing to do is to design it in.
At least, you know, have your program,
once you've scaffolded it up,
if you don't think you know
that much about security,
find somebody who does and
have them look over it.
The longer you wait,
the harder the wake up sometimes is when
you realize that you've done this wrong
and there is no easy way to fix it short
of rewriting major parts of your program.
So it's, this is not Mac OS X specific,
but I'll give it to you because
you paid good money for this.
Put the security in early.
And if you don't think you're an expert,
get yourself at least the advice of one.
It's worth it.
Find the right API, he says.
Yeah, what does that mean?
If you need to store secrets,
if you need to keep secrets,
particularly if you need to
keep secrets from other people,
use Keychains, that's what they're for.
That's where you stick secrets.
If you need to provide
some privileged service,
either to the rest of your own
program or to third parties,
Think authorization.
Authorization is specifically
there to answer the question,
"Am I supposed to do this now or not?"
If you have a network connection,
TCP/IP probably,
to some other machine and you're
worried about people snooping on it,
use secure transport, that's SSL,
use it right,
and you basically don't have to
worry about snoopers at that point.
Using right is a little
bit harder than it sounds.
It's not as easy as just calling
secure transport and saying,
"We're cool now." But that's one level of
detail that I'm not going to go in here.
Read the documentation.
It's actually got some
good stuff in there.
If you need to authenticate
people over the network,
go to directory services.
That's its job.
It deals with looking up users and
figuring out what their attributes are.
If you work with X.509 certificates,
then CMS is a good try.
Again, not an official API yet, really.
Can't change.
Preliminary.
Still.
That's our answer for it.
So,
short of porting some third-party code,
this is actually what you want to call.
And if you need to do cryptography
sort of at the base level,
not for a particular purpose,
but because your job
calls for cryptography,
then CDSA is what you're going to call.
There you are.
And as it says here at the bottom,
of course, life is never that easy.
So you'll end up mixing
and matching these things.
But that is an initial map.
Do's and don'ts.
I love do's and don'ts.
I get to tell other people what to do.
Wherever we recommend a particular API,
like secure transport for SSL, use that.
Don't go off and say, "Well,
I've seen this cool open
source thing over there,
and I'm sure it's much better
than this Apple stuff."
So maybe there's a 0.1%
chance that it actually is,
but there's a 99.many chance
that our stuff will actually
work better on OS X than
something that you port yourself.
In particular,
Whenever you find yourself
in a situation where,
"Am I supposed to do this now?
I'm root and I'm doing
something dangerous.
Am I supposed to be?"
That's authorization.
Think authorization.
That's what that's for.
If you use that,
you are actually slotting into a very
interesting and fairly complicated
machinery that allows an administrator
to configure how permissive
the security in his system is.
If you do this on your own,
you're going to end up re-implementing
half of authorization and the
other half is going to be missing.
So try not to do that.
If you deal with X.509 certificates and
You want to know whether a certificate
chain validates or whether to trust a
certificate for a particular operation.
SecTrust APIs are what you really
should be using rather than some generic
X.509 certificate library like OpenSSL.
Because, again, there's stuff in there
that is OS X specific,
for example, the user trust database,
which if you call our APIs,
you get for free.
If you call, say,
OpenSSL or some Mozilla library, nope,
just the raw stuff.
Before you go off and use root code,
try to find something in the system
that already does what you need.
For example,
before you go off and become root in
order to mount and unmount file systems,
dig around a bit and you'll find
that there's something called
a volume manager that actually
does these things for a living.
Craig Keithley,
Perry 'the Cynic' Kiehtreiber
If you have to use root code, as I said,
factor your application,
make the amount of code
that actually runs with root
privilege as small as possible,
and I really mean two pages.
In rare cases, maybe five pages.
If you find yourself writing
ten pages of root code,
you probably made a mistake.
So go back and think about what you
really need that root privilege for.
Of course, there are don'ts.
I mean, there's never just dos.
If you need to keep a secret,
don't just stuff it in a file.
Don't just stuff it in a file and make it
readable and writable only by yourself.
Put it in a keychain.
It is safer.
You can get into so much trouble
trying to do your own secret storage.
It's not worth it, believe me.
If you have communication between
different processes because
your client server or because
you had to factor your program,
don't try to come up with your
own ways of authenticating
the two pieces to each other.
Use authorization.
Again, that's what it's for.
It's very good at that.
You can basically get the code templates,
stick them in your program,
and they will, for the most part,
work just fine for you.
If you try to do this by hand,
it's very hard to do it right.
It will definitely take you
longer to do it on your own than
to do it with authorization.
If you are writing root code,
and this is only a partial list of
all the horrible things you're never
supposed to be doing while you're root,
don't ever load a plugin.
Doesn't matter where you got it from,
Don't link against any GUI libraries.
I've got nothing against GUIs.
GUIs are wonderful, but GUIs are big.
There's a lot of code in GUIs.
GUIs have a nasty habit of
loading plugins behind your back.
Don't do that.
Your root code should be a simple tool
that the glorious GUI-enabled Cocoa or
Carbon app of yours is going to talk to,
using authorization.
Did I mention that?
Good.
And there's also a laundry list of
dangerous system calls and library
calls that any unique security textbook
can tell you about that you are under no
circumstances to call while you are root.
Things like, you know, system and P open.
There's about two dozen others.
Other things you shouldn't be doing:
don't assume there's a
single user on the system.
This is an old, particularly you who
come from the OS 9 side,
I mean there's always a user, you know?
The user.
After all,
we're a personal operating system, right?
No.
There isn't always just one user.
We've just introduced what's so
nicely called fast switching,
which means that there can be any
number of users on your system.
And they're all logged
in up there in the front.
They typed in their
password at some point.
Their programs are still running.
One of them gets displayed in the front,
but the other ones are alive too,
and you have no idea which one
of them might be the one that you
want to talk to unless you actually
belong to a particular user.
And Keychains right now are
files in the file system,
single files.
If you can avoid it,
don't assume that will
always be the case,
because it won't.
Okay.
If you actually have a little bit of
spare time to think about how to make
your code more future-proof or less
in risk of having to be rewritten
every time you release something,
Use standard APIs.
We have this fairly strong policy
about continuing to maintain support
for APIs once we call them APIs.
So that's good for you if you call them.
[Transcript missing]
Don't assume that all access
is based on passwords.
That's already no longer
true in the system today.
There are some smart card interfaces and
it'll become less true in the future.
And do test with different
security configurations.
Test with different authorizations,
learn how to play around with
the authorization database,
and play around with the access
controls on Keychain items.
See if suddenly your application
throws up dozens of dialogues.
That would be embarrassing for
users who care about security.
I am running over, so I'm going to speed
up like a dervish here.
Almost all of this stuff is Darwin.
The only stuff that I've talked
about that isn't Darwin is
the actual GUI components.
If you get Darwin from the open
source server and install it,
this is all in there.
You've got CDSA,
you've got the security server,
you've got all this stuff.
Anywhere where there's UI involved,
you've got a stub that
doesn't do anything.
So, if you were really, really desperate,
you could take Darwin code and, you know,
hack it up to do UI again, but of course,
why would you?
It's only $129 to get the real stuff.
Quick list of what's new for Panther.
A lot of the X519
certificate support is new.
The CMS S-MIME is new.
You can now import certificate bundles,
PKCS, if you don't know what that is,
don't worry about it.
System Keychains are new.
There are two new frameworks
called Security Foundation and
Security Interface for Cocoa programmers
that make nice canned user
interface panes and views.
Authorization got the access
to low-numbered ports call and
the APIs for programmatically
adding authorizations are new.
And you get more flexibility in
controlling how the dialogues
work that sometimes get issued.
Keychain access is a lot nicer now.
Let's put it this way.
Somebody stuck secure arrays in.
If you're the kind of guy who
wants to erase something 20 times,
the NSA can't get at your data.
You can do it now.
It takes a while.
Okay.
I am wrapping up now.
Somebody stuck this in,
so this is the first time I've seen this.
These are other things
you may want to go to.
Okay.
Yes, they all sound really interesting.
109 security certificate APIs.
If X.509 certificates rings
your dinger or it's something
you need for your program,
then definitely go there.
It'll discuss the APIs we
have and how to use them.
Kerberos, of course,
if that's your area of interest.
Oh yeah, security feedback.
In case you didn't like my presentation,
FF016 security feedback forum,
that's where you get to complain.
Unless you want to do it now.
Craig Keithley, who officially is there
to serve your every whim,
and me.
Yes, you can send me email, I don't mind.
I don't promise to answer, but...
There is by the way I should mention,
a mail list that Apple has,
it's called apple-cdsa@group.apple.com.
It was originally created as a self
support and feedback kind of mailing
list for Cdsa users but in the past
it's low volume enough that if you
have other security questions it's
probably okay to just ask them there.
Using the usual rules for mailing lists,
read the archive first
and be patient and nice.
For more information, well,
you know these places, of course.
This is where our documentation sits,
and under security,
you'll find what we've got.
In particular, there's
There's a section on the Keychain
APIs and on authorization.
There's the Apple CDSA mailing list.
The CDSA is an open group standard,
so if you really want the 600 pages,
you can get it from the open group.